---
layout: post
title: In Praise of DaZPod
date: Sat Aug 09 19:40:27 +0200 2014
timestamp: 18989558
---

_If you're learning German—and already know a little—this podcast is not to be missed._

Probably the only criticism I'll be able to muster for [DaZPod](http://dazpod.de/) regards its cryptic name. It's pronounced "dats-pod" and stands for _dem <u>Pod</u>cast für <u>D</u>eutsch <u>a</u>ls <u>Z</u>weitsprache_ (the podcast for German as a second language). I've been listening for weeks but hadn't actually understood the meaning of the name until looking it up just now.

All that's of no matter, however, because the show is a treasure.

I've been learning German in fits and starts now for over four years. Along the way, I've tried many different learning tools and methods: Pimsleur, Berlitz, Rosetta Stone, Duolingo, private and group tutoring, books, various other podcasts, and the list could go on. None have been so useful and pleasurable as listening to a DaZPod episode.

DaZPod's brilliance is in its format.

 - It is just the right length, with most episodes being between 16 and 18 minutes. Long enough to get immersed in the content, short enough to consume completely while making a meal or doing some other simple chore.

 - It is delivered completely in German. This is a good thing, but does mean that absolute beginners will have to find some other resource to get started.

 - Each show revolves around a thoughtfully crafted dialogue. For example: two colleagues kvetch about a third who calls in sick too often to be believed; a woman's confusion over a menu is made worse by a rude waiter; Susanne wants to make a Thai papaya salad but complains to her friend about its hard-to-find ingredients. While these conversations ostensibly represent real-world situations, there is usually something farcical about them, too. The mix is just right; I am never bored with these mini-plots.

 - The show begins with the narrator setting up the dialog you're about to hear. This is a great warm-up period and allows one to switch into German mode smoothly before the action really starts. This is important as I'm usually thinking and working in English; the switching costs are still significant for me.

 - When the dialog does begin, it does so &nbsp; v e r y &nbsp; s l o w l y. This is a gift rarely given by other language learning resources. I actually feel grateful to the creators of DaZPod every time I hear those slow voices. The pace allows me to identify each and every word, distinguishing those that I know from those that are new. Because I will know most of the words in any given sentence, this creates a sense of satisfaction about how far I've come, coupled with a genuine eagerness to find out what the unfamiliar words mean.

 - When the dialog completes, the narrator returns to review each part of the exchange—sentence by sentence. And as the narrator encounters words or idioms likely to be unfamiliar, he explains them—still in German—using simple terms the listener is likely to understand. It is a wonderfully effective approach.

 - Finally, the narrator invites us to listen to the dialog once again, this time _in normale Sprechgeschwindigkeit_—at a normal rate of speaking. A sense of accomplishment follows as I listen to a non-trivial German conversation and genuinely understand what's being said.

Even DaZPod's intro and outro music does something magical for me. There's an old-fashioned feeling to it and it transports me to childhood when I'd lay in bed and listen to late-night AM radio dramas.

These little touches matter. The most important thing about any language learning tool is that one uses it regularly, and the best way to ensure that is by making it both effective and enjoyable. In DaZPod, I've found a rare combination of high-quality content that keeps me coming back enthusiastically for more.

Episodes are released weekly, with the 40th having just been released at the time of this writing. The content is free of charge, but well-deserving of the EUR 2.99 per month for premium membership. You can find everything at [dazpod.de](http://dazpod.de).

