---
layout: post
title: Ad-Free Clothing
date: Wed Aug 27 15:08:15 +0200 2014
timestamp: 19015206
---

_Why do we do clothing companies' advertising for them?_

I've been trying an experiment lately. Every time I walk into a clothing store, I ask an employee whether they sell any clothes without advertisements. So far, this question has a perfect record of producing confused looks and frustrated responses.

Clerk: "You mean... logos? Brand names?"<br/>
Me: "Yes, exactly. _Advertisements_. Do you have any clothes without them?"

At this point, the clerk will often pivot from confusion to genuine curiosity. More than once, I've been led around the store as the clerk earnestly looks to see whether there is a single article without a conspicuous label somewhere. I usually leave empty-handed, but still with a smile after these interactions.

How is it that we so happily turn ourselves into billboards for brands? Usually, people get paid to do advertising, but in the case of clothing this arrangement is reversed: we pay companies for the privelege of promoting them.

It's not just clothes, of course. It's cars and laptops and skis and phones and watches. I recently bought a watch as a gift, and in the process window-shopped my way through Vienna's first district, where there are many high-end jewelery stores. And while I was in the market for something more modest, I enjoyed taking in the spectacle of countless 10-, 20-, 30- and even 40,000 Euro watches on display. Naturally, not one failed to include their name on the dial.

This situation, perverse as it may be, is no mystery. We want to display these companies' brands. We want the status that we think is conferred on us when we wear them. But ask yourself—are you ever really impressed when you see a particular logo presenting itself on a friend's shirt? Do you think better of them for their taste in conspicuously-advertised brands? Does anyone?

I doubt that this trend will reverse itself on its own. But it could be disrupted. I often like to think about 3D printing getting sophisticated enough to print one's own clothing at home. If this were to happen, not only would we surely see an explosion of truly cool clothing designs, it would also likely spell the death of this kind of free advertising. He who controls the printer controls what gets printed, and with that power, many would choose to remove brand labels. Increasingly, those who didn't would be left feeling like tools.

In the meantime I'll continue my fun, albeit futile, resistance. Store clerks beware.

_P.S.: It's suprisingly hard to find anything online regarding "ad-free clothing" movements, or even a history of advertising on clothing. But I did have a laugh when I found [this old piece at the Guardian](http://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2010/oct/03/ask-hadley-why-wear-brand-names). Enjoy._
