---
layout: post
title: Untitled and Unfinished
date: Wed Aug 20 12:02:37 +0200 2014
timestamp: 19004940
---

_I'm in the middle of a [30-day writing challenge](/posts/practice). Here's a piece that I spent hours writing, but did not—and I think will not—finish. Since the challenge is largely about overcoming perfectionism, posting this as-is seems fitting. For fun, I've also included audio of me reading the piece aloud._

<audio controls>
    <source src="/untitled.mp3" type="audio/mpeg"/>
</audio>

This post was originally going to be titled _Beware the Bitcoin Web Wallet_, in which I would make the case to new users that they should use bitcoin the way it was intended: where you act as your own bank, and never divulge your private keys to any person or company. As I wrote it though, it grew beyond the narrow scope of that title. I wasn't sure where it would end up, but I was enjoying the process of writing it. In the end, however, I was up against my one-post-per-day deadline, and after more than eight hours of writing, I had to switch gears and quickly crank out  the shorter piece titled [A Few Thoughts on Bitcoin Web Wallets](/posts/web-wallets) instead. In the days that have followed, I've thought about finishing this original piece, but I keep opting instead for writing about new topics. I'll chalk this one up to useful experimentation and be done with it. So without further ado, here's the article, as I last left it and without any additional edits.

---

_When you're new to bitcoin, there's a lot to learn. What is it? Why would I want it? How do I get it? Where do I put it and how do I keep it safe? This post is about that last question—and why a "web wallet" shouldn't be your first answer._

To begin, let's forget about bitcoin and think about "regular" money for a moment. Imagine you have 1,000 dollars cash in your hand right now. That's a lot of dough. How would you keep it safe?

Assuming you have a bank account, you would probably make a deposit. You might keep a bit of it behind as spending money, but if you're like most people you'll feel safer knowing the bulk is in the bank.

This feeling of safety comes in part because you trust your bank won't steal your money. You also know that if your bank gets robbed or goes bankrupt, your money is insured by the government. In the end, you feel pretty secure.

It's not just about security, though. It's about convenience, too. You might want to buy something online. You might pay your rent via automatic transfer. Those are things that can't be done with cash. Indeed, banks are pretty useful.

Now let's go back to bitcoin. As I write this, the [bitcoin exchange rate](https://encrypted.google.com/search?hl=en&q=bitcoin%20exchange%20rate) is around 525 dollars per bitcoin. So instead of having 1,000 dollars cash, imagine you have two bitcoins in your hand right now. How would you keep them safe?

Take your time, give it some thought. I'll wait.

Of course this is actually a trick question. The scenario proposed above is absurd because _it is impossible to literally hold a bitcoin in your hand_. In many ways, a "coin" is a terrible metaphor for representing what a bitcoin really is.

It's beyond the scope of this post to explain precisely what a bitcoin is or how the bitcoin system works in detail. For our purposes now, just remember this: no one ever "possesses" a bitcoin—physically or digitally—in any literal way.

In fact, the only place that a bitcoin ever "exists" is as an entry in the global bitcoin database known as the _blockchain_. And as you may have heard, no one entity owns or controls the blockchain. It is a _decentralized_ accounting ledger.

So what does it mean to "own" a bitcoin, then? What are you "getting" when you exchange 1,000 "real" dollars for two units of this "virtual" currency? I'll answer this more fully below, but for now consider the following:

_Owning a bitcoin means that you alone have the ability to transfer it to another._

You can think of this as something like owning the title to a piece of land. You might casually say "I own those 50 acres", but of course you do not carry the land with your person. Nor do you keep its dirt on deposit with a land bank.

No; the land stays right where it is, always. What changes is its ownership. If you plan to "sell those 50 acres", what you really mean is that you plan to "sell _the title_ to those 50 acres".

Your ownership of that land—its title—is recorded in a registry managed by a government agency. In order to sell, give, or otherwise transfer it to someone else, you must sign the title over to its new owner in the presence of a notary.

_Owning land means that you alone have the ability to transfer it to another._

Each bitcoin is like a little piece of land. It never actually moves, but its ownership changes hands. The bitcoin blockchain is like a land registry. It's the source of truth about who owns which bitcoins, and therefore who has the right to "spend" them—which really means the right to transfer ownership.

So, strictly speaking, no one will ever give you a bitcoin, and you'll never give one to anyone else. You'll only ever transfer ownership of entries in a remarkably special distributed database called the blockchain.

With the above you can see how, while bitcoin is designed to function as money (and does so rather well), actually using and spending it is better understood through the metaphor of owning and transferring [real property](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real_property).

While land ownership and bitcoin ownership may be similar in theory, the way one proves one's ownership of each is quite different in practice.

In the case of land, proving your ownership is typically done by producing a photo ID and handwritten signature. This must be done to the satisfaction of the notary, i.e. they must match records in the land registry, not be forgeries, etc.

This is a relatively simple process. Because it occurs physically, because the land register is under centralized control, and because the notary is a trusted third party, all parties can proceed in the transfer with reasonable confidence.

In the case of bitcoin, you must also prove your ownership in order to transfer it to someone else—i.e., to spend it. But instead of photo IDs and handwritten signatures, this is done with _cryptographic keys_ and _digital_ signatures.

This process is more complex. Because it happens digitally, because the bitcoin ledger is decentralized, and because there is no notary, we need these more sophisticated means in order to transfer with confidence in the absence of trust.

Now, when many people read terms like _cryptographic keys_ and _digital signatures_, the immediate assumption is that whatever follows will be beyond their comprehension. If you're in this camp, stay with me! It won't hurt. Promise.

To understand at a high level the need for and purpose of cryptographic keys and digital signatures, let's engage in a little thought experiment.

Consider a land registry office that has no staff but whose doors are open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. It has no clerks, no regstrars, no notaries, no security guards. The actual land registry book itself, however, is lying open on a table for all to see. A pen and a notary press are placed neatly to its right.

What is stopping the next thief from walking into the office, picking up the pen, and signing over to himself the most valuable plots of land in town? Nothing more than a few forged signatures and squeezes of the press, really.

And now imagine you're in the market to purchase one of those properties. Utterly unaware of the forgery that has just occurred, you contact the currently registered owner of the land (the thief) and agree to pay him a large sum for it.

You both return to the registry office, and create a new set of entries in the book, making you the new owner. Or so you think. You pay the thief, and by the time the legitimate, original owner finds out what's happened, the thief has left town with your money. The property is returned to its rightful owner—and you are left with nothing.

So far, this may all sound perfectly silly to you, and you may be thinking it high time to bring back the registry office staff before any further forgeries occur. Maybe so.

Or maybe not. Let's rewind to the scene of the second crime—when the thief transferred his illegitimate ownership of the property to you. What if you'd had a way of proving beyond a shadow of a doubt whether he was the rightful owner?

As it was, you had nothing to go on save the history of names and signatures—a simple series of scribbles, really. In good faith you assumed that they were not forgeries—and ended up paying a heavy price for that mistake.

But what if those signatures had somehow been _unforgeable_, each one provably created by the original, rightful, property owner? And what if you'd had a simple tool in your pocket with which you could perform that proof? Of course you'd have seen right away that the thief's ownership was illegitimate and you'd have walked away from the deal.

Unfortunately, this is where our thought experiment in the unstaffed land registry must end. We'd better call the staff back to work after all, because there is no practical way with pen and paper to provide such proof. In the physical world, there simply are no such tools or techniques.

But in the digital world, those tools _do_ exist.

At a high level, the idea of a cryptographic key isn't too different than the idea of a house or car key. Just like a car key, whoever has access to it can unlock your car and drive it away.

Similarily, when someone has access to a cryptographic key, they can "unlock" or otherwise make use of certain digital resources. Often, what's being "unlocked" is text that has been scrambled, or encrypted, to keep its contents hidden from anyone other than its intended recipient.

In many ways, however, cryptographic keys can be quite different from any keys we have in the physical world. For example, you may have heard the terms "public key" and "private key" being thrown around—especially if you're getting to know bitcoin. For our purposes, a so-called "public/private key pair" can be thought of as a single cryptographic key with two parts: one for your eyes only (the private key), and the other that the whole world can see (the public key).

If it helps, think of one of those heart-shaped friendship lockets broken in two with a necklace on each side. You'll keep one side (the private key) in your pocket, and give the other side (the public key) to your best friend. In this case, your best friend is the internet.

 - rest of pub / privkey expl.
 - message authentication. digital signature.
 - example digital sig. go back to the land register
 - when you spend (transfer a bitcoin to someone), you transfer it to a bitcoin address.
 - that bitcoin address is actually a public key!
 - and when you transfer, you create a digital signature using your private key that tells the blockchain that the rightful owner...
 - so: you can see how in a very real way, your private key unlocks your bitcoins 
 - for this reason, you should essentially never give anyone access to your private keys.
 - ownership means that you alone can transfer
 - in the physical world this is easy. *you* literally have to be there.
 - in the digital world, *you* are represented by your private key.
 - many private keys. that's why we have wallets. wallets don't store bitcoins, they store private keys.
 - let's go back to the scenario that started this post. instead of imagining holding two bitcoins in your hand, imagine that I'm about to transfer two bitcoins from one of my accounts to one of yours. How would you keep them safe?
 - what does it even _mean_ to keep a bitcoin safe? thinking about the metaphor with land, you can see how problematic this "coin" metaphor can be
 - if you 1,000 have cash in your hand, there are four ways you can be parted with it. you can spend it voluntarily, by purchasing some product or service or giving it away; you can lose it when some of it falls out of your hand; it can be stolen; or, (however unlikely) it could be destroyed.
 - if you have just purchased two two bitcoins, however, those bitcoins are perfectly safe in the blockchain, replicated thousands of times around the globe, and soon, even in space. No bitcoin will ever be lost, stolen or destroyed. Once created, a bitcoin is essentially immortal.
 - the only thing that can go wrong is that you lose access. that has nothing to do with the bitcoins. it has everything to do with the private keys.
 - spending is obviously still possible, but this means reassigning ownership of a bitcoin from your private key to someone else's private key. loss is still possible, but it means loss of private key. This is the famous guy in the garbage dump story. theft is still possible, but it's theft of the private keys. This is the famous Mt. Gox story.
 - so the question is *not* "how do I keep my bitcoins safe?". The question is "how do I keep my private keys safe?". The difference is extremely important.
 - the difference is important, because in practice, private keys take the form of files on a computer hard drive.
 - the answer to the first question was putting them in a bank. bitcoin doesn't have banks per se (yet), but it does have something close to them: online wallet providers, or web wallets. These are companies like coinbase, blockchain.info, and a newer entrant called Circle.
 - these companies are serious about security, but...
 - you *can* secure your own private keys. it takes a little education, but it's well worth it.

