---
layout: post
title: The Internet of Small Businesses
date: Tue Aug 19 23:24:18 +0200 2014
timestamp: 19004182
---

_Pinboard is the kind of small business the internet could use a lot more of. I'm looking forward to putting my new account there to good use._

[Pinboard](http://pinboard.in) is an anomaly, but it shouldn't be.

It's an anomaly because it's a privately-owned and profitable web service, a one-man operation keenly focused on keeping its customers happy with exactly the features they need in a bookmarking tool—and nothing else.

Basically, Pinboard represents the internet's equivalent of a successful small business. And what we need is a lot more examples like it.

The owner of the service, [Maciej Cegłowski](http://idlewords.com/about.htm), wrote this in a recent post celebrating [Pinboard's fifth birthday](https://blog.pinboard.in/2014/07/pinboard_turns_five/):

> "The biggest surprise (to me) is how predictable Pinboard has been over the past three years. Users come and go, like on every site, but the number of active users stays roughly the same. And the site makes roughly the same amount of money (around $200K) every year."

Surprising indeed. $200K a year is a great income, even in San Francisco where Cegłowski lives. So why don't we hear more stories like his? The internet provides a extraordinary platform for offering services like Pinboard at minimum cost while charging users a decent price in exchange for real value. And yet so few online businesses actually work this way.

The idea of a simple, honest way to make a buck online is unusual because we live in a world overrun by idea that everything should be free of charge. Of course the reality is that nothing is free and everything gets paid for with advertising. Ethan Zuckerman wrote this week about the pop-up ad—his personal contribution to this state of affairs—in a piece titled [The Internet's Original Sin](http://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2014/08/advertising-is-the-internets-original-sin/376041/?single_page=true). His mention of Cegłowski and Pinboard in that article reminded me that I've been meaning to check the service out for a while now.

I'm glad I did. I've signed up for [an account of my own](https://pinboard.in/u:cbeams) and I couldn't have been happier to pay for it. Pinboard has all the characteristics of a business that is actually motivated by keeping its customers happy:

 - It is reasonably priced (a one-time fee of $10.46 at time of writing)
 - It provides simple and intuitive privacy controls
 - It provides an API for data export
 - It explains [security](https://pinboard.in/security/), [privacy](https://pinboard.in/privacy/), and [terms of service](https://pinboard.in/tos/) concisely and simply
 - It is full of small, well thought-out features
 - It is populated by interesting users and content
 - It has a thriving ecosystem of apps and integrations
 - It is free of advertisments, free of spam, free of bullshit in general

You get what you pay for.

Pinboard proves that success is not "all about the eyeballs"; that growth can be slow and steady, and can reach an equillibrium in which all involved are happy; that VC money is not required, nor are acquisition-based exit strategies; that to do it you need only be willing to build something useful, keep costs low, charge a decent price, and be content with a comfortable, sustainable income.

The success of Pinboard is also a reminder that despite current enthusiasms about decentralization, not every service needs to be redesigned to operate in a perfectly trustless or peer-to-peer fashion. There is a spectrum from total centralization to total decentralization, and there's plenty of room in the middle for services like Pinboard. The most important thing is that users are presented with increasingly better alternatives to "free". Pinboard is by all accounts just that—a great product at a decent price that's earned a solid reputation over time. I hope we see many more of its kind in the days to come.
