---
layout: post
title: Day 26
date: Tue Sep  2 23:55:13 CEST 2014
timestamp: 19024373
---

_Today is the 26th day of my [30-day writing experiment](/posts/practice). I'm close to the finish line, but ending the experiment early anyway. Here's why—and what I found along the way._

After 26 days and 21 posts (including this one), I've learned a few things. One is that I'm virtually incapable of writing anything short. The average post has been 1100 words, and while that may not seem like much, most of them have taken me hours, sometimes even multiple days to write.

When I began this experiment, I wanted to see if I could do away with what felt like a paralyzing kind of perfectionism, but now I'm not so sure about that diagnosis. For better or worse, I simply prefer taking the time to craft what I think is something worth reading, and as it turns out, doing so is rather time consuming for me. I've certainly gotten more efficient in the last weeks, but the process is still far from quick.

Because I'll be [giving a talk](/posts/revolution) next week, I now need all my available time to finish my preparations. For that reason, I'm cutting my 30-day experiment short. The alternative would be trying to throw together pieces very quickly, and aside from the fact that I seriously doubt I could do that if I tried, I simply don't want to.

I've gotten a lot of out doing this, and I look forward to continuing to write, though I now know a post-per-day pace is probably a bit aggressive. I'll leave you with a few stats and findings.

- The longest post was [_How to Write a Git Commit Message_](/posts/git-commit), at 2881 words.
- The shortest was [_A Simple GitHub Pages Emulation Scheme_](/posts/publish), at 384 words.
- The most viewed post was _How to Write a Git Commit Message_, with about 7000 page views at time of writing.
- The least viewed was [_A Few Thoughts on Bitcoin Web Wallets_](/posts/web-wallets), at 13 page views (!)

Unsurprisingly, Twitter has been the major driver of traffic. I tweeted a link to each post immediately after writing it, and whether a post got any significant page views was in direct relation to the number of times the link was was retweeted.

Some posts, like [_The Internet of Small Businesses_](/posts/pinboard) got picked up by small news outlets and continue to have a steady stream of page views every day.

In the case of [_Privacy-Friendly Personal Bitcoin Address Services_](/posts/address), I [posted a link](http://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/2dvsh5/privacyfriendly_personal_bitcoin_address_services/) to it on the r/bitcoin subreddit to see what would happen. It resulted in a hundreds of page views, but nothing too dramatic.

In the case of _How to Write a Git Commit Message_, someone else posted a link to it on the r/git subreddit. That resulted in more conversation and more traffic. I think in the future I'll refrain from posting my own material on Reddit; it seems more legitimate to let someone else do it.

The [RSS feed](http://feed.chris.beams.io/atom.xml) feed for this site is routed through [FeedPress](http://feedpress.it) for analytics. Before the experiment it had zero subscribers. As of this writing, it now boasts nine! See? RSS isn't dead after all.

Disqus comments had also been set up prior to the experiment. Two days ago, I [disabled them entirely](https://twitter.com/cbeams/status/506074740130594817), because after nearly two dozen posts there had been zero comments. I'm really glad I tweeted about that, because Bjørn Pedersen then asked me the obvious—whether they were comments, but just awaiting moderation. That was exactly the case, and I'm happy to say there have now been 13 comments overall. It's a little thrill when each one shows up.

Do you see what just happened here? I told you I'm incapable of writing anything short.

In any case, thanks for reading. It's been a lot of fun doing this.
