---
layout: post
title: Halfway There
date: Mon Aug 25 23:56:41 +0200 2014
timestamp: 19012854
---

_I'm a little over halfway through my [30-day writing challenge](/posts/practice). Here's what I've learned so far._

I write in a linear fashion, and feel a strong need to provide an introduction to things before I write anything specific about them. This means it's been hard for me to write anything short and to the point. I'm beginning to see that prefacing everything probably isn't so necessary.

I've put off writing almost every piece until the end of the day. Multiple times I have literally published at 11:59 pm. Indeed, I am writing this sentence at 10:51. One good thing about this is that it forces me to write relatively quickly. Otherwise [Parkinson's Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parkinson%27s_law) takes over and I end up spending eight hours writing [pieces that I never even finish](/posts/untitled/).

> _Parkinson's Law: Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion_

I've grown an immense respect for writers who publish daily columns, blogs, tv shows, comic strips, etc. It's a relentless pace. I'd like to learn more about their strategies and how they manage their time and creativity. I'd like to believe it's possible to do without the late-night stress.

Out of the 18 days so far, I failed to publish on three of them. This is interesting, because I explicitly gave myself the permission to write a post each day "on any topic and of any length"—I literally could have written a single sentence on each of those days stating that they sky is blue or that I'm too busy to write, but I didn't. This has something to do with perfectionism, perhaps, but I think it has more to do with not wanting to waste people's time. I don't want to direct anyone's attention to a worthless piece of writing (I'm a bit worried about this one falling into that category as it is). The one rule I've been trying to follow is that what I write should add value to readers; I'm sure this is generally wise, but maybe I should cut myself a little slack while I'm in this explicit practice mode.

Most of the 15 posts I've written have been rather technical in nature. They've all been reflections of what's on my mind at the time, so that's fine, but still I'm a little disappointed. I had hoped to write not only about technical topics, but also about other ongoing interests I have, particularly around political and economic philosophy, books I've been reading, new business models, and so on. In fact most of these topics are closely related to my technical interests, but I'm concerned that I'm out of my depth in writing about them. I gravitate toward writing about technical matters because that's what I'm most comfortable with. In the days to come, I'd like to stretch out of my comfort zone a little, and see if I can capture in writing a few thoughts about these other domains.

By far the most popular post I've written during the challenge has been [The Internet of Small Businesses](/posts/pinboard). This got retweeted by a number of folks with high follower counts, and subsequently got picked up by a couple small news outlets, resulting in a few thousand unique page views. Nothing too dramatic, but those numbers dwarf what most my posts usually get. It's particularly interesting that this post has been the most popular, because it's also one of the least technical, and indeed deals with business and economics—the topics I'm very interested in but feel less at home writing about.

On a number of occasions, having a daily writing deadline has actually made me more productive, because I knew I needed to quickly accomplish something worth writing about. This was the case in writing about [Keybase](/posts/keybase) and a couple [Docker](/posts/dockerize-this)-[related](/posts/vanitygen) posts. Not a bad recipe for getting things done.

Altogether, I'm glad I put myself up to this challenge, even though I've often cursed myself for doing so. If you've been following what I've been writing, I'd love to hear any feedback you have. Feel free to add comments here, or mail me directly at [chris@beams.io](mailto:chris@beams.io?subject=Writing feedback). Thanks!
