---
layout: post
title: "Practice Breaks Perfect"
date: Fri Aug 08 21:52:00 +0200 2014
timestamp: 18988250
---

_I find writing difficult. I also find it too valuable not to do. That's why I'm going to write and publish at least one post every day for the next month. Starting with this one._

> "I'm a perfectionist, but I won't let that get in the way of publication." _–Aaron Swartz_

I keep a list of writing ideas for this blog. Some are trivial and fun. Like explaining how, at 36 years old, I found a better way to tie my shoes. Other ideas are more involved. Many deal with technology and potential programming projects, and I actually need to write about them to work out whether they're _good_ ideas. Some others on the list are about reviewing books I've read or movies I've watched, mainly as a way of ensuring I don't forget the good things about them.

That list is about 60 items long at the moment and yet I've published only three posts on this site in the couple months it's been up. It seems my most important writing task is of a meta-nature: I must learn how to do it quickly and regularly.

With plenty of ideas, why so little output? In part the problem is procrastination, but primarily it's the paralyzing effects of perfectionism.

It's always easier to consume than produce, and time I could be writing often ends up spent [reading](/reading) or [listening](/listening) to the work of others. Often that time is simply wasted on managing the insignificant. Everyone deals with procrastination and it is not an interesting problem. Its solution is as simple as it is self-evident: just block out everything else and write something. The remedy for procrastination is to _just do_ whatever it is one is avoiding. Done so regulary, a habit forms. The acquisition of the writing habit is one of my goals in this month-long exercise.

If procrastination is an old and familiar foe to be wrestled by will alone, then perfectionism is an old friend whose counsel I no longer wish to keep—but whose charms I cannot resist.

It's for our years and successes together that I am defenseless. How many hours (days, weeks!) have we spent formatting code, refining documentation, carefully crafting git commits? These may the programmer's equivalent of pixel-pushing, but in the correct context they are worth doing. Indeed I have been and still am proud of much of this work.

But now perfectionism whispers unbidden to tweak and polish while productivity begs feebly to finish, to publish. I heed the whispers because I think correctness, completeness and beauty matter in blog posts as they do in code. I am mistaken. Blog posts know no bugs. Formatting, grammar, typos and style can be tweaked _after_ publication without need of release or upgrade.

Surely the long influence of perfectionism will never leave me completely, nor do I wish it to. But it must be tempered in favor of output. Even now, as I write this sentence and check the clock, I see it's been three hours since I began writing this post. `wc` tells me I'm at 504 words. I haven't left my keyboard during that time. That means I have been writing this post at an average of one word every 21 seconds. Don't worry about that figure being wrong: perfectionism just forced me to double-check the math.

I don't know how to beat perfectionism. Procrastination is defeated through focus and will, but perfectionism is fueled by these very virtues. Indeed, perfectionism degenerates quickly into the cleverest form of procrastination. Never causing an outright distraction, remaining engaged in the task at hand, the quest for perfect prose postpones publication and—more to the point—the potential for rejection it brings.

Perhaps it's only through practice at a prescribed pace that one can put perfectionism in its place. Deadlines certainly have a deadly effect on procrastination. Thus I arrive at the following one-month experiment and exercise. **Between today, August 8th, and September 8th, I shall**:

 1. Publish at least one post on any topic and of any length
 2. Tweet a link to that post so as to announce it

These criteria are intentionally simple and relaxed to allow me a maximum range of motion. I'll need it to figure out how to deliver effective death blows to these enemies.
 
Length doesn't matter, because as it is I slave over even the simplest of Tweets when I (rarely) send them. If I can develop a sense of freedom from perfectionism in long or short forms, it'll be a worthwhile exercise.

Tweeting a link to whatever I post here is a way of reasonably ensuring that at least a couple people will read it, and that should keep me honest with regard to the timeline.

The comic strip _Guindon_ once quipped that _"writing is nature's way of letting you know how sloppy your thinking is"_. Through gradual experience I've realized the truth of this statement—that writing is indeed the best way of thinking clearly through an argument or idea, and doing so in a public fashion benefits the process doubly. First, it takes advantage of the writer's ego by creating a vanity-driven incentive to produce content (dead blogs make their owners look bad). Second, it allows others to review and challenge that thinking, which—given a learned audience—should result in further refinement (or perhaps rejection) of the idea.

The ideas in a piece of writing are more important than the particular prose that delivers them. Reviewers of a piece of writing are likely to comment on and improve its ideas, but are not likely to comment on or improve the prose (save your mother, high school English teacher, or fellow pedants). With this in mind, it is far better to publish as soon as an idea or argument has been expressed clearly, as this allows for its most rapid refinement. However vulnerable this may make one feel, it is the principled and productive path to anything worth calling perfection. Perpetually polishing prose prior to publication is pursuing a false perfection, because prose is subordinate to ideas. An author is free to tweak his writing after publication and to his heart's content. But he is also free to engage with his reviewers and their comments. Or to begin writing down the next set of ideas.

Self-evident as this logic for early publication and delayed prettification may seem to some, I write it down here so I can remind myself of it often over the coming month. For I can already hear whispers telling me otherwise.

Bask with me, won't you, in the glorious irony that this post on beating perfectionism is now over a thousand words long and took more than five hours to write. All is not lost; at this updated average of 17 seconds per word, I'm already improving.

<small>_You can [subscribe via RSS](http://feed.chris.beams.io/atom.xml)._</small>
